[DOCS] Whats new in 8.6 (#2852)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

// tag::notable-highlights[]

[float]
== Detection rules enhancements

*Alert suppression for custom query rules*

{security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[Alert suppression] allows you to reduce the number of repeated or duplicate detection alerts created by a custom query detection rule each time the rule runs. Matching events are grouped by a specified field, and only one alert is created for each group per rule execution. You can also specify multiple fields to group events by unique combinations of values. 

*New terms rules allow multiple fields*

You can now configure {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#create-new-terms-rule[new terms] detection rules to detect combinations of up to three new terms. For example, a host IP address and host ID that haven't been observed together. 

*New Tines connector for rule actions* 

There's a new Tines connector you can select when configuring rule actions. This connector uses Tines' https://www.tines.com/docs/actions/types/webhook[Webhook Actions] to send events to a Tines story.

*{ml-cap} job enhancements*

The following enhancements have been added to simplify managing {ml} detection rules and their associated {ml} jobs:

> * Required {ml} jobs are automatically started when creating a new {ml} rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Required {ml} jobs start automatically when you create a new {ml} rule.
```

* The rule details page includes toggles to turn on {ml} jobs for existing rules.
* The Rules page displays additional information and an error icon to identify rules with {ml} jobs that aren't running.

*New prebuilt rules*

18 new {security-guide}/prebuilt-rules.html[prebuilt rules] were added in 8.6.0.

[float]
== Role-based access control (RBAC) for response actions

New feature privileges in {kib} allow admins to manage {security-guide}/endpoint-management-req.html[role-based access to {elastic-defend} features], including access to response actions history, isolating and releasing hosts, and performing process-related response actions on hosts. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/rbac.png[Role-based access controls]

[float]
== New Data Exfiltration Detection (DED) integration

> The DED integration package protects your data from being exfiltrated to external web services (technical preview only).

Reviewer 2: Add link to integration docs?

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/DED-integration.png[DED integration]

[float]
== Entity Analytics dashboard enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to the {security-guide}/detection-entity-dashboard.html[Entity Analytics dashboard] to improve efficiency in responding to emerging threats: 

* Hover over a host name or user name to display inline actions: *Add to timeline investigation*, which adds the selected value to a new Timeline, and *Copy to Clipboard*, which copies the host name value for you to paste later.
* Launch Timeline by clicking the number link in the *Alerts* column. 
* Install and run a {ml} job directly from the *Notable Anomalies* table  by clicking *Run job*. 

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/entity-dashboard.png[Entity Analytics Dashboard]

[float]
== Exceptions enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to the exceptions feature to improve the UI and simplify management: 

* The Exceptions lists page has been renamed to *Shared Exception Lists*, where you can create, manage, and import shared exception lists.
* There are now two types of exception lists:

> ** *Default exception lists*: A default rule list is a group of exceptions that belong to a single rule. Other rules cannot use exceptions within a rule’s default rule list.

Reviewer 2: Terminology is a little inconsistent -- is it a "default exception list" or a "default rule list"? I'm still not familiar enough with the new feature to know which term to use, maybe @nastasha-solomon knows?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** *Default rule lists*: A default rule list is a group of exceptions that belong to a single rule. Other rules cannot use exceptions within a rule’s default rule list.
```

Reviewer 3: Good catch, thanks @joepeeples!

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/default-rule-list.png[Default rule list]
+

> ** *Shared exception lists*: Shared exception lists allow you to group exceptions together, then apply them to multiple rules. Exception lists created in {stack} versions 8.5 and earlier are saved as exception lists when upgrading to 8.6 or later. You can access all shared exception lists from the *Shared Exception Lists* page (*Manage -> Shared Exception Lists*).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
** *Shared exception lists*: Shared exception lists allow you to group exceptions together, then apply them to multiple rules. Exception lists created in {stack} versions 8.5 and earlier become shared exception lists in 8.6 or later. You can access all shared exception lists from the *Shared Exception Lists* page (*Manage -> Shared Exception Lists*).
```

> ** *Shared exception lists*: Shared exception lists allow you to group exceptions together, then apply them to multiple rules. Exception lists created in {stack} versions 8.5 and earlier are saved as exception lists when upgrading to 8.6 or later. You can access all shared exception lists from the *Shared Exception Lists* page (*Manage -> Shared Exception Lists*).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
** *Shared exception lists*: Shared exception lists allow you to group exceptions together, then apply them to multiple rules. Exception lists created in {stack} versions 8.5 and earlier are saved as shared exception lists when upgrading to 8.6 or later. You can access all shared exception lists from the *Shared Exception Lists* page (*Manage -> Shared Exception Lists*).
```
Is this correct? I'm wondering since it's in this paragraph rather than the previous one that describes default exception lists

Author: Previous para should have said `default rule list` - so it's correct. Thanks for checking.

+
[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/rule-exceptions-page.png[Shared Exceptions list]

> * You can now duplicate rules and their exceptions or rules only.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You can now duplicate rules and their exceptions, or rules only.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/add-alerts.png[Bulk add alerts to Timeline]

[float]
== Cloud Security Posture enhancements 

*File and Network events enabled for Session View*

For events to appear in Session View, they must include additional ECS fields related to their context in the Linux process model. Previously, only process events could include the required fields. In 8.6, file and network events can also include the necessary fields, meaning that file and network alerts can appear in Session View in addition to process alerts.

*Capture Linux environment variables*

You can now configure a policy to capture up to five {security-guide}/environment-variable-capture.html[environment variables] (key-value pairs) from Linux hosts. This allows you to capture additional information relevant to investigations. 

*Enhanced Cloud Posture dashboard* 

The Cloud Posture dashboard has an improved user interface, including more ways to directly access the Findings page.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/cloud-dashboard.png[Cloud Posture dashboard]

[float]
== Threat intelligence enhancements

*Updated Threat intelligence UI*

> A *View indicators* button has been added to the Threat Intelligence card on the Overview dashboard. Click this button to go directly to the Indicators page, where you can view more details about ingested indicators.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A *View indicators* button has been added to the Threat Intelligence view on the Overview dashboard. Click this button to go directly to the Indicators page, where you can view more details about ingested indicators.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.6/TI-card.png[Threat Intelligence card]

*Add cases to indicators*

> Adding indicators to cases allows you to escalate threats to other teams and workflows using Security cases. You can add indicators to cases from the Indicators table or the Indicators details flyout.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Adding indicators to cases allows you to escalate threats to other teams and workflows using {elastic-sec} cases. You can add indicators to cases from the Indicators table or the Indicators details flyout.
```

*Indicators page enhancements*

The following enhancements have been added to the Indicators page. To learn more about analyzing indicators, refer to {security-guide}/indicators-of-compromise.html[Indicators of compromise].

* A status message added beneath the KQL search bar reflects when the Indicators page was last updated. 
* You can now view the Indicators page in full-screen mode. 
* A *Copy to Clipboard* action has been added to the Indicators table. 

> * The Trend chart now shows accumulative values in the legend.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* The Trend chart now shows the total values in the legend.
```

Reviewer 3: Forgot to update this in the What's new issue. Sorry about that!
